# Undergraduate_research_project_analysis

## Effect of Different Compost Amendments on Soil, Vine Length and Yield of Cucumber (_cucumis sativus_) in Awka.
## Overview
This repository contains the python code and data analysis for my undergraduate research project which investigates the effects of different composts on soil properties and cucumber growth and yield. 
## Project Description
This research was conducted at the experimental farm at Nnamdi Azikiwe University, Awka, Nigeria to investigate the effect of compost amendments-poultry manure mixed with grass weeds and sawdust (PGS) and goat manure mixed with broadleaf weeds and sawdust (GBS). The study examined the impact of these composts on soil properties, selected micronutrients (Zn, Fe, Mn) and cucumber growth and yield. The experiment was set up in a Randomized Completely Block Design (RCBD) with three treatments-the control, GBS and PGS, replicated six times. The soils were sampled two weeks after compost application and analyzed in the lab, while cucumber seeds were planted three weeks later. Vine length and cucumber yield were measured over the growth period. In the lab, the following physicochemical parameters were analyzed; particle size distribution, soil pH, soil organic carbon, nitrogen, available phosphorus, exchangeable cations (Ca2+ , Mg2+, K+ and Na+ ), base saturation and some micronutrients (Zn, Fe, and Mn). The data  from the soil and plant parameters  were subjected to statistical analysis with ANOVA function using python, leveraging libraries such as pandas and scipy. The result from the findings showed that the soils treated with PGS composts had higher organic carbon, calcium, magnesium, potassium, sodium, iron and manganese while the soils treated with GBS composts had higher nitrogen, phosphorus and zinc concentration. The soils without any compost amendment generally recorded the least concentration of all the nutrients. In terms of cucumber vine length and yield, the soils treated with PGS compost had higher length and yield. 
## Conclusion
Based on the results from the experiment, the findings shows that soils treated with composts perform better than the ones without any organic amendment. However, the PGS compost gave higher yield when compared with the GBS in the soil of Awka metroplis.
